there was a time we just threw stuff
away nowadays that doesn't feel quite
right we want to recycle or to review
and scientists and engineers are finding
surprising new ways to create value our
rubbish take unwanted Beach plastic it's
a mix of different types degraded by
saltwater recovered dirt sand particles
scientists and engineers at P&G
TerraCycle and Suez developed a process
to turn this waste into new shampoo
boxes volunteers harvest the plastic and
get sorted by type cleaned crushed and
melted into pellets and sandwiched
between layers of new plastic to create
shampoo bottles just as strong as those
made from virgin plastic and well
discarded plastic is one kind of waste
manufacturing processes generate waste
as well take nappies any parent will
tell you that nappies are a wonder of
modern engineering they contain
sophisticated materials like super
absorbent polymers that soak up liquid
like a sponge P&G scientists have found
a new life for the leftover polymer
materials in a surprising place China's
Gobi Desert they turned the super
absorbing polymers into compost allowing
farmers to plant trees an area that may
only get rain once a year just like they
do in nappies the power/lock water into
the soil
keeping trees alive helping to prevent
erosion and reclaiming land in the
desert all of this from a humble nappy
and the minds of clever scientists
people who look at a pile of rubbish and
see a way to turn waste into worth
you
[Music]